-- Show Customers (name, id, country) who are not in the US.

Select CustomerID, FirstName, LastName, Country FROM chinook.customers
WHERE country != "USA";

--Show only those customers from Brazil.

Select CustomerID, FIrstName, LastName, Country FROM chinook.customers
WHERE country = "Brazil";

-- Show invoices of customers from Brazil. Including customer's full name, Invoice ID, Date of the invoice, and billing country.

Select customers.firstname, customers.lastname, invoices.invoiceid, invoices.invoicedate, invoices.billingcountry FROM Chinook.invoices
JOIN Chinook.customers on customers.customerid = invoices.customerid
WHERE country = "Brazil";

--Show the employees who are sales agents.

Select * FROM chinook.employees
WHERE title LIKE "%sales% %agent%";

--Show/List each country billing country in the Invoice table.

SELECT DISTINCT billingcountry from chinook.invoices;

--Provide a query to show invoices associated with each sales agent.

Select employees.firstname, employees.lastname, invoices.invoiceid FROM chinook.employees
JOIN chinook.customers on customers.supportrepid = employees.employeeid
JOIN chinook.invoices on invoices.customerid = customers.customerid;

-- Show invoice total, customer name, country, and sales agent fro all invoices and customers.

Select employees.firstname, employees.lastname, customers.country, invoices.total, customers.FirstName, customers.LastName
FROM chinook.employees
JOIN chinook.invoices on invoices.customerid = customers.customerid
JOIN chinook.customers on customers.supportrepid = employees.employeeid;

--How many invoices were there in 2009?

SELECT count(invoices.invoiceid) FROM chinook.invoices
WHERE invoicedate BETWEEN "2009-01-01" AND "2009-12-31";

-- What are the total sales for 2009?

SELECT sum(invoices.total) FROM chinook.invoices
WHERE invoicedate BETWEEN "2009-01-01" AND "2009-12-31";

--Write a query to show purchased track name and artist with each invoice line item.
SELECT invoice_items.invoicelineid, tracks.name, tracks.composer FROM chinook.invoice_items
JOIN chinook.tracks ON tracks.trackid = invoice_items.trackid;

--Write a query that shows all Tracks with Album name, media type and genre.

Select tracks.name, media_types.name as mediatype, albums.title as album, genres.name as genre
FROM chinook.tracks
join chinook.media_types ON tracks.mediatypeid = media_types.mediatypeid
JOIN chinook.albums ON tracks.albumid = albums.albumid
JOIN chinook.genres ON tracks.genreid = genres.genreid
;

-- Show total sales made by each sales agent

Select employees.FirstName, Employees.LastName, ROUND(sum(invoices.total)) as "Total Sales" FROM chinook.employees
JOIN chinook.customers ON  customers.supportrepid = employees.employeeid
JOIN chinook.invoices ON invoices.customerid = customers.customerid
WHERE employees.title LIKE "%sales%agent%"
GROUP BY employees.firstname;

-- Which agent made most sales in 2009?

Select employees.FirstName, Employees.LastName, ROUND(sum(invoices.total)) as "Total Sales" FROM chinook.employees
JOIN chinook.customers ON  customers.supportrepid = employees.employeeid
JOIN chinook.invoices ON invoices.customerid = customers.customerid
WHERE employees.title LIKE "%sales%agent%"
AND invoices.invoicedate LIKE "2009%"
GROUP BY employees.firstname
ORDER BY ROUND(SUM(invoices.total)) DESC LIMIT 1; 
